README.md, before:

# Grep Action

Run `grep` and report results, along with additional context, as annotations.

## Motivation

This is a shameless copy of Code Climate's [`grep` engine][grep-engine]
([license][grep-license]), implementing the same functionality as a GitHub
Action.

[grep-engine]: https://docs.codeclimate.com/docs/grep
[grep-license]: https://github.com/codeclimate/codeclimate-grep/blob/master/LICENSE

The `grep` engine is a low-friction way to introduce automated, timely, and
_useful_ feedback on any piece of incoming code you can target with a regular
expression.

We wanted it as a GitHub Action to gain:

- Performance of running over only the changed files in the PR
- Convenience of annotations appearing in the diff (without a Browser Extension)

Note that if you're considering using this Action over Code Climate, you will
lose:

- Markdown support in the annotation content (until GitHub implements it)
- Tracking extant Issues over time and centralizing them with other Code Climate
  analyses

## Usage

```yaml
on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  grep:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: freckle/grep-action@v1
        with:
          patterns: |
            - pattern: "\\bword\\b"

              syntax: extended

              binary-files: without-match

              paths:
                - "**/*"

              paths-ignore:
                - "test/**/*"

              level: warning

              title: A brief title

              message: |
                A longer message body
```

## Inputs

- `patterns`: See below.

- `only-changed`: If `true` (the default), only the files changed in the Pull
  Request will be considered.

  **NOTE**: This action doesn't really work on non-`pull_request` events.

- `create-new-check`: If `true`, a new Check is created and the annotations are
  attached to it. Default is `false`, which means to log the annotations
  normally.

- `failure-threshold`: If any annotations are created at or above this level,
  the run will fail. See `patterns[].level` for valid values. Default is
  `failure`.

- `github-token`: override the default `GITHUB_TOKEN`, if desired.

See [`./action.yml`](./action.yml) for complete details.

## The `patterns` Input

The `patterns` input is a String (as all inputs must be) that contains a Yaml
Array of Objects with the following keys:

- `pattern`

  A `grep` "Basic Regular Expression". See the "Basic vs Extended Regular
  Expressions" section of [`grep(1)`][man-grep] for more details. **Required**.

  [man-grep]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/grep

- `syntax`

  The `grep` "Pattern Syntax" to use. This corresponds to `grep`'s `-E`, `F`,
  `-G`, or `-P` options. One of `extended`, `fixed`, `basic`, or `perl`. Default
  is `basic` (like `grep` itself).

- `binary-files`

  Controls searching in binary files, corresponding to `grep`'s
  `--binary-files=<value>` option. One of `binary` (search binary files but do
  not print), `without-match` (do not search binary files), or `text` (treat
  all files as text). Default is `binary` (like `grep` itself).

- `paths`

  List of globs, files matching any will be `grep`ped. Default is everything
  (`["**/*"]`).

- `paths-ignore`

  List of globs, files matching `paths` but that match any of these will **not**
  be `grep`ped. Default is none (`[]`).

- `level`

  The level of the resulting annotation, `notice|warning|failure`. Default is
  `notice`.

- `title`

  A short title for the annotation resulting from this pattern. **Required**.

- `message`

  A longer message for the annotation resulting from this pattern. Default is
  none.

## Outputs

None.

## Example

![](./screenshot.png)

---

[LICENSE](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: add security recommendations for SHA pinning and permissions

README.md, after:

# Grep Action

Run `grep` and report results, along with additional context, as annotations.

## Motivation

This is a shameless copy of Code Climate's [`grep` engine][grep-engine]
([license][grep-license]), implementing the same functionality as a GitHub
Action.

[grep-engine]: https://docs.codeclimate.com/docs/grep
[grep-license]: https://github.com/codeclimate/codeclimate-grep/blob/master/LICENSE

The `grep` engine is a low-friction way to introduce automated, timely, and
_useful_ feedback on any piece of incoming code you can target with a regular
expression.

We wanted it as a GitHub Action to gain:

- Performance of running over only the changed files in the PR
- Convenience of annotations appearing in the diff (without a Browser Extension)

Note that if you're considering using this Action over Code Climate, you will
lose:

- Markdown support in the annotation content (until GitHub implements it)
- Tracking extant Issues over time and centralizing them with other Code Climate
  analyses

## Usage

```yaml
on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  grep:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: freckle/grep-action@v1
        with:
          patterns: |
            - pattern: "\\bword\\b"

              syntax: extended

              binary-files: without-match

              paths:
                - "**/*"

              paths-ignore:
                - "test/**/*"

              level: warning

              title: A brief title

              message: |
                A longer message body
```

## Security Recommendations

For enhanced security when using this action, consider implementing these best practices:

### SHA Pinning

Reference the action using a full commit SHA instead of a version tag to protect against supply chain attacks:

```yaml
- uses: freckle/grep-action@dd64f200665b77673185885bd2ef9e72bbd9ecd9  # v1.1.2
```

### Minimal Permissions

Restrict the workflow permissions to only what is needed:

```yaml
permissions:
  contents: read       # Only need to read repository contents
  pull-requests: write # Needed to add annotations to PRs
```

These permissions ensure the action has only the necessary access to your repository while still being able to create annotations.

## Inputs

- `patterns`: See below.

- `only-changed`: If `true` (the default), only the files changed in the Pull
  Request will be considered.

  **NOTE**: This action doesn't really work on non-`pull_request` events.

- `create-new-check`: If `true`, a new Check is created and the annotations are
  attached to it. Default is `false`, which means to log the annotations
  normally.

- `failure-threshold`: If any annotations are created at or above this level,
  the run will fail. See `patterns[].level` for valid values. Default is
  `failure`.

- `github-token`: override the default `GITHUB_TOKEN`, if desired.

See [`./action.yml`](./action.yml) for complete details.

## The `patterns` Input

The `patterns` input is a String (as all inputs must be) that contains a Yaml
Array of Objects with the following keys:

- `pattern`

  A `grep` "Basic Regular Expression". See the "Basic vs Extended Regular
  Expressions" section of [`grep(1)`][man-grep] for more details. **Required**.

  [man-grep]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/grep

- `syntax`

  The `grep` "Pattern Syntax" to use. This corresponds to `grep`'s `-E`, `F`,
  `-G`, or `-P` options. One of `extended`, `fixed`, `basic`, or `perl`. Default
  is `basic` (like `grep` itself).

- `binary-files`

  Controls searching in binary files, corresponding to `grep`'s
  `--binary-files=<value>` option. One of `binary` (search binary files but do
  not print), `without-match` (do not search binary files), or `text` (treat
  all files as text). Default is `binary` (like `grep` itself).

- `paths`

  List of globs, files matching any will be `grep`ped. Default is everything
  (`["**/*"]`).

- `paths-ignore`

  List of globs, files matching `paths` but that match any of these will **not**
  be `grep`ped. Default is none (`[]`).

- `level`

  The level of the resulting annotation, `notice|warning|failure`. Default is
  `notice`.

- `title`

  A short title for the annotation resulting from this pattern. **Required**.

- `message`

  A longer message for the annotation resulting from this pattern. Default is
  none.

## Outputs

None.

## Example

![](./screenshot.png)

---

[LICENSE](./LICENSE)
